{ "title": "Guide into Competitive Brawl Stars: ADCs", "author": "XaviorKeyz", "description": "Today I break down and dissect the long-ranged class of Brawl Stars - ADCs.", "order": 11 }

Guide into the Competitive Scene of Brawl Stars - ADCs
---

**Preface:** Welcome back to Article 1 - Part 2 of my series, *“An In-Depth Guide into the Competitive Scene of 2020 Brawl Stars!”* Today I break down and dissect the long-ranged class of Brawl Stars - ADCs, as well as explain their roles and impact in the game. Please comment after you finish reading. I appreciate all thoughts and feedback and personally read every single comment that I get! I hope you enjoy!

**TL;DR:** Skip over the next four paragraphs to \[“ADCs”\] if you only wish to read today’s title related content.

**Intro:** Before I begin I’d like to thank everyone for the support I am receiving in this endeavor. I’m extremely grateful for the positive feedback and encouragement I got on my last post, so I’m excited to get into today’s topic! I would also like to thank my proofreaders Cali Life, Gooose, and LukieBear for their invaluable help. They catch a lot of grammatical errors and make me rethink my Brawl Stars analyses - improving my articles ten-fold. Before we begin, if you missed my first segment ([Tanks](/blog/guides/tanks),) make sure to give it a read before you go any further. Now, ADCs are going to be the most complex class I discuss. So buckle up - this is a long read.

**Brawler Classification:** After reading Part 1, you may be wondering how and why I organized and assigned the 32 Brawlers to the classes that I did. Let me explain my methodology: In Brawl Stars there is a somewhat strange way that the developers assign “type” or “class” to the Brawlers they design. While they maintain a certain level of structure and consistency, the Brawl Stars Dev Team also takes into consideration the unique kit of that specific Brawler. The best example of this is Bibi, whom is classified in game as a “Batter.” True to her character lore and animation, Bibi’s class is very suiting, yet it deviates from Brawl Star’s otherwise consistent Brawler classifications. Here is a list of all the **current in-game Brawler classes:** Heavyweight, Fighter, Sharpshooter, Thrower, Healer, Batter, Sniper, Dashing Assassin, Skirmisher, Support, Toxic Assassin, and Stealthy Assassin. Most of these are easy to understand groupings, but some (Skirmisher) relay confusing interpretations. This is why I decided to break Article 1 into easier-to-understand groupings, and it also allows me to draw comparisons to the patterns of other MOBAs.

**Class Crossover:** Here is how I compare the relationships between the in-game Brawler classes and the classes I have created for this series:

* **Tanks** = Heavyweights & Batter (10)
* **ADCs** = Sharpshooters & Snipers (6)
* **Supports** = Healers, Supports, & Throwers (8)
* **Fighters** = Fighters, Skirmishers, & Assassins to an extent (9)

I find it interesting to see the balanced number of brawlers-per-class. This shows the success the Brawl Stars Dev Team has in keeping the meta equal and refreshing.

*Note*: I list 8-Bit as a Tank, although he is a hybrid ADC. One could easily change the number of Tanks to (9) and ADCs to (7) because of this

(Detour aside, let’s get into today’s topic!)

**MOBA ADCs vs Brawl Stars ADCs:** For those of you whom are unfamiliar, the term “ADC” is short for “Attack Damage Carry.” In MOBAs this typically makes ADCs characters that deal physical damage (rather than magic damage) such as snipers and sharpshooters. This is where my comparison between Brawl Stars and other MOBAs ends, and here is why: Brawl Stars is unique in the fact that it only has one form of damage - base damage. While there are other other damage-related stats like shields (Damage Reduction) or 8-Bits damage-enhancing turret, there is only one form of dealing damage. In other games like League of Legends or Mobile Legends, there are various forms of damage dealing including physical, magic, and true damage. Once again, Brawl Stars has only “hit your opponent and they take damage.” Simple. However; this changes the way Brawlers are classified in Brawl Stars.

**ADCs:** Rather than being called an attack damage carry because their auto attacks deal physical damage (comparison to other MOBAs for all your TL;DR folks,) an ADC in Brawl Stars is simply a Brawler that has long range and high DPS. This makes ADCs the true fire power of Brawl Stars. Having potentially team-wiping damage and supers, these Brawlers are also fragile. ADCs in Brawl Stars have low-medium low HP, medium long-long range, and are typically easy to maneuver (fast base movement speeds, kinetic based abilities, etc.) These prerequisites make Colt, Leon, Rico, Bea, Brock, and Piper all fall into this Primary Category.

*Note*: As much as 8-Bit appears to be one, he has too much health and is too immobile to be a true ADC and is classified primarily as a Tank instead

The most important skill to learn to be a successful ADC is survival. Practice and grind mastering techniques like **teasing** (weaving in and out of corners or from behind an obstacle to bait enemy fire as you heal or reload) and **baiting** (leading enemies into allies or traps by having low health and instigating a chase.) Secondary mechanics such as **wall peeking** or **dancing** (mirroring your target’s movement patterns to land more subsequent shots) will increase your damage output by astounding amounts, but are less important than staying alive. To study and work on advanced Brawler mechanics check out this incredible video by [KairosTime](https://youtu.be/jfgHFzGgTsE)! I separate ADCs into two sub-classes:

**Marksmen:**

*Overview -* Marksman are long ranged brawlers that utilize burst fire patterns (an array or barrage of bullets per attack.) Marksman are aggressive-based backliners that look for every single chance to deal high damage to an enemy. Having slightly more health and better utility (faster speed, invisibility, etc,) marksmen make better duelists than Snipers do and can often go toe-to-toe with Fighters or even Tanks under the right conditions.

*Included Brawlers:* Colt, Leon, and Rico. This is also 8-Bit’s secondary class.

*Roles of a Marksman:* Marksman have two major responsibilities:

1. As previously mentioned, Marksmen have extremely high DPS and should utilize it. Their primary role is to eliminate, damage, or force back their enemies. All Marksman are equipped for killing - Colt has a wall breaking, high damaging super with speed or attack enhancing star powers, Rico has trajectory-based, high DPS attacks with damage and speed enhancing star powers, and Leon has a flank enabling super, high movement speed, and sustain or chase down aiding star powers. With these battle ready kits, it is a marksman’s primary job to threaten the enemy. Marksman can threaten their opponents in two ways - attacking and positioning. The key to being a top tier Marksman player is making every single attack you fire count for something. Your first goal should always be to threaten, or to force your opponent to either hold position or fall back. Having high DPS, landing even 2 or 3 shots out of your barrage will deal ample damage to an enemy. Keep pressure on the enemy team with continuous attacks, forcing them back and harassing them so they cannot heal when damaged. This is much easier said than done. As a marksman you CANNOT die, ever. Because Marksman possess the highest damage per second in the game (tanks are a close second but cannot match the damage of Rico & Colt’s supers) any time wasted respawning is crucial damage and control your team is losing. The only exception to this rule is if you can absolutely guarantee a kill on 2 or more enemies, setting your team up for a crucial objective like scoring a goal or starting the gem grab countdown. Even with Leon’s assassin based style, kill trading is not worth sacrificing the pressure that Marksman impose on the enemy team.
2. Your second goal, following being a threat, is to damage or kill your enemies. It is imperative to remember that this is your second goal (note my word choice) because you have to refrain from dying. This barrier is what creates perhaps the highest skill cap in the game among players. Anyone that has watched Jack Chepo play Rico know the sheer devastation he brings upon his enemies. This is due to one extremely difficult thing to master that Chepo has, well, mastered! Recognition. The best players in the world know and can recognize the exact split second they are given an opportunity, and this is the difference between whiffing an entire Colt super or wiping an entire team with Colt’s super. So when and how do you know that you have an opportunity?
   1.  Rule number one is to be safe. If there is a chance you die before even finishing your entire super animation, you don’t have an opportunity.
   2. Rule number two is to wait for your enemies to make a mistake. This is the reason Tara can solo carry games, and Marksman should play the same way. Wait for your adversary to overextend, to greedily go for a gem, to try to flank your teammate at the wrong time, etc, and then make your move. Always hold your super for that moment that two or three enemies stack up on one another, unless you can GUARANTEE a safe kill.
   3.  The final rule is to recognize when a teammate sets you up. The best example I can conjure is when an ally Bo places clever mines that your enemy later steps on. You and your enemy did nothing to create the opportunity; your teammate set it up. Frank, Tara, and Gene are also excellent for setting up teammates. Co-player cooperation, or **chemistry**, is the golden ticket to playing Brawl Stars at the highest achievable level. It often takes extreme repetition and verbal communication to develop, but once gained having chemistry with your teammates will get you Rank 35 Brawlers, near perfect Power Play results, or other prestigious accomplishments. Check out some Pro Gameplay from [Bobby](https://youtu.be/CYaah9Z-4JI) and [OG](https://youtu.be/tUG9xiMN994) \- who are renowned for their unrivaled chemistry. They are two of North America’s best players and it shows in these leagues.

Takeaway**: Recognition is key.**

*Synergies:* While this list is prone to change based on map selection, Marksman typically excel in compositions including: 0-1 Defenders, 1-2 Bruisers, 0-1 Snipers, 0-1 Harass, 0-1 Utility, 0-1 Aggros, 0-1 Control.

**Snipers:**

*Overview* **-** Ah Snipers, the all time favorite of gamers for their ability to one shot their opponent from afar. They never see it coming and it never gets old. Mechanically, Snipers differ from Marksmen in their single-shot basic attacks. While still possessing the potential to drop their enemies from full HP to zero HP, Snipers require pinpoint precision and careful positioning to capitalize. Marksman, in comparison, can afford being more forward-moving and aggressive. Snipers are the masters of multi-lane harassment, and also have the unique commodity of having time. That concept sounds confusing to even me, so let me explain: Snipers possess the longest  range of all brawlers in the game (tied with throwers,) so with proper positioning they will always have ample space between themselves and their adversaries. By having more space between yourself and your opponent, you gain increased reaction time to dodge, plan attacks, and to observe (this is a key role to being a top tier sniper that many players don’t understand or do.) Positioning is everything for a Sniper, as having low health and few escape mechanics (excluding Piper) make them incredibly vulnerable in close-combat situations. Maintain advantageous back-line positions though, and you’ll find Snipers can carry games.

*Included Brawlers:* Bea, Brock, and Piper.

*Roles of a Sniper:* Snipers have two important roles to fulfill:

1. Snipers share the same primary responsibility as Marksman. Having nearly the DPS potential that Marksman have and even longer range, a Sniper's main focus should be forcing the enemy team back by keeping a threatening demeanor or by dealing damage. \*Note: The next paragraph is copy and pasted from “Roles of a Marksman - Role 1” with slight modifications.\*

As previously mentioned, Snipers have high DPS and should utilize it. Their primary role is to eliminate, damage, or force back their enemies. All Marksman are equipped for killing, being able to completely wipe out all brawlers in the game in anywhere from 1-4 shots (with the exception of Sponge Frank.) With their health-chunking attacks, it is a Sniper’s primary job to threaten the enemy. Snipers can threaten their opponents in two ways - damaging their enemies and by controlling key positions (chokepoints) . The key to being a top tier Sniper is making every single attack you fire count for something. Your first goal should always be to threaten (forcing your opponent to either hold position or fall back.) Having high DPS, landing just 1 shot will deal ample damage to an enemy and force them to either engage or retreat.

**Important Note**: In a nutshell, this is what teams battle for in competitive or high level ganes. This ebb-and-flow battle to force the enemy to give ground or take an undesired engagement is the essence of competitive Brawl Stars. High caliber players suffer very few deaths when compared to recreational players, and it's because they aren’t competing for kills. Rather they compete for CONTROL. Whichever team has the better positioning almost always controls the objective (gem spawn or bolts) and will in turn win the game.\* As a Sniper, keep pressure on the enemy team with continuous attacks, forcing them back and harassing them so they cannot heal when damaged. This is much easier said than done. As a Sniper you CANNOT die, ever. Because Snipers possess such great burst potential, any time wasted respawning is crucial damage and control your team is losing. The only exception to this rule is if you can absolutely guarantee a kill on 2 or more enemies, setting your team up for a crucial objective like scoring a goal or starting the gem grab countdown.

1. The second responsibility that Snipers have is to **Observe**. Because of the spacing and time (explanation under “Snipers - Overview” that Snipers possess, it gives them the ability to observe the battlefield. Compared to other classes like Tanks and Fighters that are in near-constant combat, Snipers have time to analyze the battle and notice patterns. The best examples of observing and reacting among the Sniper class are watching high level Brocks and Pipers that break cover or terrain at the correct time. In situations like on Snake Prairie (Bounty) where tanks are prevalent and your team is in the lead, smart Brocks and Pipers will use their supers to destroy bushes. This forces the enemy team to give away their position and walk through open clearings to have a chance at taking back the lead, setting your team up to win the ensuing teamfight. In Brawl Ball: supering the goal as Brock to force back enemies and destroy terrain can set up a teammate looking to score. As Bea, using your super to slow the enemy team can allow a teammate to run past the enemies team and score. Observing the movement patterns or fighting patterns of your teammates and enemies is extremely difficult to master, but separates the elite from the average Snipers. Observe the dodging pattern of your enemies to land more successful shots on them. Observe the aggressive patterns or intentions of your teammates and give them support. As a Sniper, it is nearly impossible to win a game by yourself. But if you have even one teammate that you base your decisions on, you can and will win a high percentage of games. If you want to become great as a Sniper, learn to adapt to the playstyle of your teammates. Aggressively support them when they fight, or play passive and for control when they are objective-focused.

Takeaway: **Good Snipers go with the flow.**

*Synergies*: 0-1 Defenders, 1-2 Bruisers, 0-1 Marksman, 0-2 Aggros, 0-1 Control, 0-1 Harass, 0-1 Utility.

Until next time,

* Xavior