{ "title": "Guide into Competitive Brawl Stars: Tanks", "author": "XaviorKeyz", "description": "Today's focus is on the Tank class of Brawl Stars.", "order": 10 }

Guide into the Competitive Scene of Brawl Stars - Tanks
---

**Preface:** Welcome to Article 1 of my series, "*An In-Depth Guide into the Competitive Scene of 2020 Brawl Stars*." In Article 1 I dissect every Brawler currently in the game by grouping them into "Brawler Classes" and breaking down each Class’ roles and impact in game. Today's focus (Part 1) is on the Tank class of Brawl Stars! Please leave any thoughts, feelings, or suggestions in the comments below!

**TL;DR:** Skip over the next four paragraphs \[to “Brawler Classes”\] if you only wish to read the content related to this article's title.

**Intro:** First of all I would like to thank you all for reading this article. The Brawl Stars community is unlike any other gaming community I have ever been heavily involved in, and I can confidently include 10 or more mobile titles in that comparison. Without your support, this comprehensive series would be, well, less comprehensive! I would also like to thank my friend Cali Life for his collaboration and input on this detailed guide! He caught a lot of oddities and offered invaluable feedback. Now enough said, this series is being written with the hope to educate recreational, mid-core, and even the most elite competitive Brawl Stars Enthusiasts on how and why they play the brawlers they choose, and on what they're doing wrong. Let's begin!

**Understanding The Game:** Before you can begin to grasp the meta of any game, you have to at least somewhat understand how that game functions. I'll break it down for you - Brawl Stars itself is a completely unique game in its structure. It is a live action, fast paced, MOBA-like game, yet it lacks the defining features (designated lanes, character classes, 5v5 formatting, longer time durations, etc) to group it with games like League of Legends, Dota 2, or even the 3v3 Vainglory. Despite its differences, Brawl Stars has just as complex a meta as all of the aforementioned. This boils down to two reasons; changing maps and multiple game modes. No other game in existence has such a rich combination of varying characters, changing environments, and game modes with unique objectives. This triple-dimension aspect makes Brawl Stars' meta more complicated to truly understand than any other MOBA or Action-MMO game to date. Its' complexity is also my personal inspiration for creating a series of articles to help guide players through it. There is just too much to take in at once!

**Learning Your Brawler(s)**: The first pillar of Brawl Star's triple-dimension structure. Before we dive into the different maps and game modes of Brawl Stars, we have to start with what makes Brawl Star's just like any other game - Learning your character! Let me give an example on why this is the first and MOST IMPORTANT part of any live action game. If you cannot aptly control your character, which I will refer to as Brawler mechanics for the rest of this Series, then you will never become a good player. Even if you have a perfect understanding of all of the different maps and the best team compositions to use, not being able to stay alive in a game or aim without auto assist (Auto Aim) will place you so far behind the pack that the game will be frustrating to you and to your teammates. So with that being said, the first step to becoming a skilled Brawl Stars player is understanding WHAT YOUR BRAWLER does, and WHAT THEIR JOB is based on their kit.

**Unique Kits**: For those of you that don't know, a "kit" is the gamer word to refer to a heroes’ characteristics, skills, moves, or abilities that separate them from any other character. This is undoubtedly Brawl Stars' most simple-and-refreshing game aspect. Every single current Brawler in the game has two "moves," their auto, or basic attack, and their super. Some Brawlers have Star Powers that may enhance a mechanic, but there are only two ability buttons in the game, period. Thankfully this makes it easier to break down and separate the Brawler types, which if you are still reading we will get into now!

**Brawler Class(es)**: There are 4 Primary classes I am going to assign all 32 Brawlers to. This is similar to other MOBAs like League of Legends that have 5 universal roles, but Brawl Stars lacks the "jungle role" due to game design. Additionally, I will break down each Primary class into 2 or 3 sub-classes. Today's break down is on the Heavier Brawlers of the game! Here we go:

*Note*: Some Brawlers have multiple classes which I will address in a future article series. For organizational purposes, Brawlers have been categorized into their subclass only. If you disagree with my class assignments, please wait for the upcoming series\*

**Tanks**: Probably the most explanatory of all the classes, a "Tank" is any brawler with a high amount of health (HP.) In Brawl Stars this number is 6000+ HP (this refers to Brawlers at max level 10) This makes the following Brawlers fall into this Primary Category: 8-Bit, Bull, Carl, Darryl, El Primo, Frank, Pam, Rosa. I will also add Shelly and Bibi into this category as their Band-Aid and Batting Stance star powers let them take up to 7040 (Shelly) and 8036 (Bibi) total damage. I separate Tanks into two sub-classes:

**Defenders**: (Tank Subclass I)

*Overview* \- True to its name, a Defender's primary job is to defend their allies and objectives. In other MOBAs, a Defender would be the equivalent of roaming support - which are independent enough to protect themselves, but excel when working with a partner. And while similar to the Support class, Defender’s usually lack the utility kit of a support, are not mobile enough to be a true support, and lack passive effect support abilities. Defenders tend to rely more on using attacks or dealing damage to enemies to “support” their allies. They are experts in **zoning** (a medium skill cap mechanic in which a player uses their kit to prevent or deter an enemy from moving a certain direction or from making an aggressive move,) and ultimately prevent their teammates from suffering potential damage or deaths just by being there. In other words, Defenders prevent or distract their opponents from attacking their allies, and by doing this help their teammates to deal more damage or secure objectives.

*Included Brawlers:* (Batting Stance) Bibi, Carl, Frank, Pam, (Shell Shock) Shelly and 8-Bit.

*Roles of a Defender:* Defenders have two main responsibilities.

1. Defenders should serve as the barrier between their enemy and ally.  This gives Defenders more of a stationary and passive role, as they should never go on offense (aggressing towards the enemy) except in extreme situations like when the enemy team has started the countdown in Gem Grab. Defenders should rarely isolate themselves from their teammates, and instead stay within 2-3 vertical tiles of their nearest teammate at all times. Taking this positioning can also deter enemies from advancing to close to your teammates in their respective lanes, and will you help any long ranged allies you have to apply more pressure and damage. While playing this role it is CRUCIAL to avoid all damage, so utilize mechanics like **wall peeking** (firing around corners and retreating to avoid damage) and **juking** (practicing erratic movement patterns to dodge attacks) in your personal lane matchup. When an enemy does decide to advance on your ally, having full health enables you to intervene in their fight and turn that lane into a very brief 2v1 situation.
2. A Defender’s second role is to protect their allies and help with objectives. Defenders accomplish this by serving as a shield (body blocking damage from an ally), guarding allies with their defensive based attacks, or by deterring enemies from approaching (as stated in Role 1.) In objective based games such as Gem Grab, Brawl Ball, and Present Plunder (compared to kill based games like Bounty, Heist, and Seige) acting as a shield for an ally can be game winning. Protect your gem carrier, ball carrier, or gift carrier, when they are in danger or in positions to score. If a goal can be scored or if the gem carrier will die otherwise, sacrificing yourself for them is the go-to play (and as an added benefit they will love you for it!) Save your enemy repelling abilities (Bibi’s home run, Shelly’s super, Frank’s super, Carl’s super) for the opportune play making moment when multiple enemies line up or you can help secure an objective. Holding onto your super as a Defender acts as a constant deterrent for any opponent wishing to approach an exposed ally or objective. **A retreated Brawler is a defeated Brawler**, and holding an objective (gem spawn) or giving your long ranged allies some breathing room to operate is worth far more than getting a reckless kill ever can. Overall, play patient and wait for your moment to help your team as a Defender and your win rates will soar!

*Synergies:* While this list is prone to change based on map selection, Defenders typically excel in compositions including: 1-2 Marksman, 1-2 Snipers, 1 Bruiser, 1 Aggro, 1 Controller, 1-2 Harass, and 0 Utility.

**Bruisers**: (Tank Subclass II)

*Overview* \- In many MOBAs such as League of Legends and Arena of Valor, there is a common way to build (using item customization to enhance your characters attributes) and play tanks that allow tank-based characters to be far more aggressive. Brawl Stars is no exception to this archetype known as Bruisers, tanky characters that yield high damage output. Contrary to Defenders, Bruisers are the bully of Brawl Stars that often chase down enemies, pressure opponents, or **ambush** (waiting in a bush for an enemy to walk into you) opponents. The Bruiser class features high health Brawlers with movement enabling, or kinetic kits and star powers.

*Included Brawlers*: (Home Run) Bibi, Bull, Darryl, El Primo, Rosa, and (Band-Aid) Shelly.

*Roles of a Buiser*: Bruisers have two main responsibilities.

1. Bruisers should typically fill the “Aggro” lane or position in 3v3 maps. An “Aggro” is essentially an aggressive Brawler whose goal is to take an extended position closer to enemy territory, and to then hold position until a play can be made. These Brawlers excel at winning lane (either killing or forcing an opponent to retreat) by having high DPS, gap closing abilities, or other good dueling traits. After winning a lane or attaining an advantageous position such as cover behind a chokepoint, look for the chance to assist teammates. It is imperative that Bruisers don’t force plays, or they will get punished and either die or lose control of their lane and the objective. When the moment is right, such as when a teammate weakens an enemy or an enemy overextends, look to continue harassing or **gank** (approaching an opponent from an unexpected direction to trap them between you and your teammates) that exposed individual. Bruisers are often the cavalry in a team-fight, coming in to heavily damage or finish off weakened opponents. Look for any opportunity your teammates give you, and take your chance to strike.
2. A Bruiser’s secondary role is to pressure or zone the enemy. By taking an easily defended position, Bruisers can destroy the opponent’s rhythm by forcing them back. Bruisers are so threatening by nature, that if they control a choke point they can almost single-handedly **Spawn-Trap** (not allowing the opposing team outside their spawn by controlling all major exits) the enemy team. Successfully zoning or spawn trapping the opposing team will give your team total control of objectives and let your teammates gain advantageous positioning. On the other hand if your team is struggling to gain control or if a teammate has just died, it is also the Bruiser’s job to not give ground past a certain point. Compared to a lower health marksman or thrower who must retreat heavily in a 2v3, a bruiser has the close combat skills to maintain middle ground and allow some control to be maintained. Bruisers are essential to successful team fights and for gaining and maintaining team positioning.

*Synergies*: 1-2 Marksman, 1-2 Snipers, 1 Defender, 1 Aggros, 0 Controllers, 1-2 Harass, 1 Utility.